focus_area	grantee	support_type	years	description
Criminal Justice Reform	Essie Justice Group	General Support	2016-2017	Essie Justice Group harnesses the collective power of women with incarcerated loved ones. Using their Healing to Advocacy curriculum, they bring women together to give and receive support, and access their collective power as leaders and advocates.
Criminal Justice Reform	Common Justice	General Support	2016-2017	Common Justice has created the first (and so far only) alternative-to-incarceration and victim service program that focuses on violent felonies in the adult courts. Nationally, they leverage the lessons from their direct service to transform the justice system through partnerships, advocacy, and elevating the experience and power of those most impacted.
Criminal Justice Reform	Color Of Change	Prosecutor Accountability Efforts	2016-2020	Color Of Change is the nation’s largest online racial justice organization. They help people respond effectively to injustice in the world around us. As a national online force driven by over one million members, CoC moves decision-makers in corporations and government to create a more human and less hostile world for Black people in America.
Criminal Justice Reform	The Marshall Project	General Support	2017	The Marshall Project is a nonpartisan, nonprofit news organization that seeks to create and sustain a sense of national urgency about the U.S. criminal justice system. They achieve this through award-winning journalism, partnerships with other news outlets and public forums. In all of our work we strive to educate and enlarge the audience of people who care about the state of criminal justice.
Criminal Justice Reform	Civil Rights Corps	General Support	2017	Civil Rights Corps challenges systemic injustice in the American legal system.  They engage in advocacy and public education and specialize in innovative, systemic civil rights litigation with the goal of resensitizing the legal system and our culture to the injustice and brutality that characterize the contemporary American criminal system.
Criminal Justice Reform	Californians For Safety And Justice	California Bail Reform Effort	2017	Californians for Safety and Justice works with Californians from all walks of life to replace prison and justice system waste with common sense solutions that create safe neighborhoods and save public dollars. Through policy advocacy, public education, partnerships and support for local best practices, CSJ promotes effective criminal justice strategies to stop the cycle of crime and build healthy communities.
Criminal Justice Reform	Ella Baker Center For Human Rights	California Bail Reform Efforts	2017	The Ella Baker Center builds the power of black, brown, and poor people to break the cycles of incarceration and poverty and make our communities safe, healthy, and strong. They work locally in the Bay Area, statewide, and nationally to change policies, reinvest in communities, and redefine safety.
Criminal Justice Reform	Youth Justice Coalition	California Bail Reform Efforts	2017	The Youth Justice Coalition is working to build a youth, family, and incarcerated people’s movement to challenge America’s addiction to incarceration and race, gender and class discrimination in Los Angeles County’s, California’s and the nation’s juvenile and criminal injustice systems.
Criminal Justice Reform	Communities United For Restorative Youth Justice	California Bail Reform Efforts	2017	The mission of CURYJ (pronounced Courage) is to interrupt the cycles of violence and poverty by motivating and empowering young people that have been impacted directly and indirectly by the criminal justice system to make positive changes in their lives and prepare them to become the community leaders of today.
Criminal Justice Reform	Fathers & Families Of San Joaquin	California Bail Reform Efforts	2017	Fathers & Families of San Joaquin works to address the varying needs of men, women, youth, their families and the community of the San Joaquin Valley. FFSJ addresses critical problems such as institutional inequity, fatherless homes, wide spread poverty, employment disparities, inadequate access to public health services, community re-entry and youth on youth violence.
Criminal Justice Reform	Million Voters Project	California Proposition 57 Advocacy	2016	The Million Voters Project – a collaboration of California’s strongest community-based networks – will reshape the face of the state's electorate by delivering one million voters to the polls by 2018. Their targeted organizing will reach people one-on-one, build relationships, and inspire people to vote consistently to reverse the low turnout trends that are hurting our state, our cities, and our families.
Criminal Justice Reform	Alliance For Safety And Justice	Crime Survivor Organizing Convenings	2016	Alliance for Safety and Justice is a national organization that aims to win new safety priorities in states across the country. ASJ partners with leaders and advocates to advance state reform through networking, coalition building, research, education and advocacy. ASJ also brings together diverse crime survivors to advance policies that help communities most harmed by crime and violence.
Income Security	Economic Security Project	General Support; Voter Perception Research, a project of David Binder Research; Listen First Tour, a project of Mia Birdsong	2017	The Economic Security Project is a two year fund to support exploration and experimentation with unconditional cash stipends. They are supporting projects like academic research, state and local basic income campaigns, and cultural projects around economic security.
Income Security	GiveDirectly	Basic Income Study	2016	GiveDirectly is working with leading economists to organize an ambitious experiment that will rigorously test the impact of different models of basic income over 12 years in Kenya. More than 26,000 people will receive some type of cash transfer, with more than 6,000 receiving a long-term basic income.
